# Design and Develoment of Virtual Air Canvas System
<p><b>Abstract: </b>With increasing technology each sector needs to be modernized. With the improvement of clever gadgets, the system can now be controlled virtually with the aid of using human gestures. While using paint, sometimes we feel it is difficult to draw and feel like drawing our imagination just by waving our hand. The existing technologies allows us to draw just by waving hand uses technology or methodology which takes a lot of process and time. Avoiding or decreasing these limitations we came up with the Air Canvas System that uses new technologies and easy methodologies. The Air Canvas makes a speciality of growing a motion-to-textual converter. The proposed system works on hand tracking system development which aims to track the hand which acts as pen and functions as pen to create or draw different shapes and also as an eraser using Open Computer Vision Library(Open-CV) and MediaPipe.  System Camera is used to track the hand and create drawings.</p>
<p>Keywords: Air Canvas, MediaPipe, OpenCV, Hand Tracking</p>

<p><b>Introduction: </b>Air Canvas is a hands-free digital drawing canvas which utilizes camera, OpenCV and MediaPipe to recognize and map the hand gestures. The user finger is considered as the brush or the pen used to draw. The size of the brush can be modified , also the pen color can be changed by hovering the pointer over built-in buttons. This system uses python language to build the code. Camera and MediaPipe is used to track the finger positions. Computer Vision built in methods are used to draw on the canvas or the area provided. We can also save the canvas work as an image.</p>
